This is one of multiple land or local area network troubleshooting videos.
In this example users are complaining that P.S. One can't ping P.C. to his right of one acting as P.C.
one ping tend or wonder three to two looks like the pings are failing so we don't have connectivity
from P.S. 1 G.P.S. to show IP runt default gateway of the piece he is configured to tend on 1 to 2 to
2 5 4.
This is a Cisco I was V router but IP routing has been disabled hence the routing table looks as follows
IP routing is disabled but a default gateway has been configured.
Hence we see default gateway as follows.
Can we paying the default gateway.
Yes We Can.
Can we paying v land 3 on the default gateway.
2 is in Valence 3.
And notice here is the default gateway switch one some of the documentation in this topology hasn't
been updated and that's something you're constantly going to find when troubleshooting Real Networks
so we can ping the and 3 on the default gateway can the default gateway ping router to see guess switch
one acting as the default gateway cannot paying ten dot one dot 3 or two.
No it can't.
So it looks like we have a problem between switch one and this broader.
Let's check if we have connectivity between the Access Switch and the core switch my topology is not
showing the IP address of the axis switch so let's jump on to the axis switch and confirm and check
what its IP addresses.
This is a problem you may encounter if you don't have no IP domain lookup enabled these devices or Iris
a v layer two switches and routers in ingenious 3.
No IP domain lookup is not enabled by default on these devices so that's probably something we want
to do immediately to save us frustration.
So the command is no IP domain lookup so show IP interface brief switch has this IP address and VLAN
one can we paying the core switch on Vigeland 1 looks like we can't.
Can we ping the score switch switch to so before going any further let's update the documentation that's
the IP address of the switch.
Let's check if the switch campaign switch to see has switch to show IP interface brief okay.
As IP addresses on the 3 v lands.
So what I'll do is update the diagram it's 2 5 3 in all the V lines so that's IP addresses of switched
to can switch for the Axis switch ping tendered 1 1 2 5 3.
Doesn't look like it can.
It looks like there's a problem on this link between switch 2 and switch 4 for show CTP neighbor.
We do see a neighbor relationship between the local switch and Rod of 2 as well as switch to show IP
interface brief interfaces look up show interface trunk.
It looks like this interfaces chunking to the core.
Let's check the configuration on the core switch so show interface.
Trunk can you see the problem.
What I'll do is move the console to the left here.
Can you see the issue.
What's the problem between switch to and switch for Okay so on switch for gigabit to 0 0.
Has trucking on encapsulation is editor of 1 que native vlan is 1 on gigabit 0 1 on switch to trucking
is on but the encapsulation is ISIL so trucking is enabled with a native villain of one but the encapsulation
is wrong or different so encapsulation is ISIL on this port whereas on this port encapsulation is dot
one Q You need to have the same encapsulation on both sides.
So what I'll do is change the encapsulation show run interface gigabits 01 that looks better
canned the switch not paying switch for with IP address 10 1 1 4 it still hasn't come up what we may
have to do is wait a bit but what I'll do just to force things is shut the interface down and then no
shut it you may have a slightly different experience in Jena 3 vs. a physical switch we still only see
switch one through CTP there may take a while to come up
interfaces up up show interface trunk chunking is now set to Ed the one Q on both sides can this switch
now pain switch to yes it can.
So that looks better.
If you have issues you may want to shut and then no shut the interface so that the encapsulation and
other options are renegotiated so can P.S. 1 ping P.S. To let's check if that works OK we still have
a problem P.S. One on the left is not able to ping P.C. to let's do a trace 2 10 1 3 2 so it gets to
the default gateway and then the trace.
Times out can P.C. to write it to acting as P.C. to ping its default gateway
yes it can
notice suddenly here we had some kind of output
and I was actually running an ICMP debug here and noticed the output so let's try and do that ping again
and what I'll do is enable a debug IP ICMP
so the ping is suddenly working and that may just be something ingenious 3.
The problem here is notice this option.
Be careful especially with pieces you may have a problem where everything looks good but the pieces
can't ping each other.
What I should have configured as an IP default gateway of 10 to 1 dot 3 or 2 5 4
so in a real environment that ping may not work.
It depends where the proxy OP is enabled on your interview land writing devices proxy OP will allow
a device to proxy the default gateways of other devices.
In many cases that's disabled so you need to have the default gateways enabled on both sides to show
IP right.
Notice default gateway show IP rot.
Default gateways configured so be careful in a real environment and in the exam that the default gateways
on both edge devices are configured properly so we've not fixed this topology.
If you enjoyed the video please like it.
And please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.